# Set up users on AWS

Before continuing, you should know it’s [not recommended](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/best-practices.html#create-iam-users) using your root account to access AWS. Also, you should enable MFA on your root account. You can do it [here](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#/security_credential).
We are going to setup 2 AWS users.
One to access AWS via console (user/password) and another one for accessing our account programmatically (we will create an **access key ID** and **secret access key** for the AWS API, CLI, SDK, and other development tools).

This will be done attaching [policies](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/access_policies.html) to the users. There you can customize the access to various AWS services.

So first we are going to create the user for AWS console:

1. Login into your AWS account with the root user
2. Go to **IAM** under Security, Identity & Compliance section
3. Click on Users
4. Click Add user button
5. Enter a username and check the option: **AWS Management Console access** under the **Select AWS access type** section and then click next
6. Select **Attach existing policies directly**
7. Search for: AdministratorAccess , check it and click next
8. Click create user. Copy the url and password that appear in the Success message

Now lets login with our new user:

1. Log out from AWS and go to the link you copied earlier
2. Enter the username and password that was autogenerated
3. Enter your new password

Then we can create a user to access AWS programmatically:

1. Repeat steps from 2 to 4 of create user
2. Enter a username and check the option **Programmatic access** under the **Select AWS access type** section. Click next
3. Select **Attach existing policies directly**
4. Search for: AdministratorAccess , check it and click next
5. Click download csv

There you can find the access key id and the secret access key. You’ll need them to [configure your AWS CLI](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html) in your computer. If you don’t have AWS CLI installed yet, you can do it following [these steps](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html).

---

Next: [Serve a static website from S3 with API in a EC2 instance and PostgresDB on RDS](/workshop/s3-web-ec2-api-rds/introduction.md)
